# Module-3-Python-Challenge
Python Challenge

1. PyBank:
First, I imported both the os and csv modules, specified the CSV file to read, and opened it using csv.reader. Then, specified the delimiter and stored and skipped the header. Now I began the loop through all lines; first by assigning variables to the values I would need. Then, I began a for loop to count the total number of months and total profits.
Then, however, once I began to try and find the average change, and maximum and minimum change in profits, I ran into an interesting case: if the CSV file data only consisted of two lines, and both months' profits were recorded as negative, all changes (maximum, minimum, total, and average) might be calculated as zero if I assign those variables (total change, average change, etc.) equal to zero at the beginning. To get around this error, I kept track of both the rowIndex (lines in the CSV) and rowData (columns in CSV) by using the enumerate() function (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/enumerate-in-python/). Now I could use an if statement saying if the rowIndex is 0 (first line of data), then the previous month's change in profits equals the current month's change in profits. Then I assigned both minimum and maximum changes in profits, and the month, to the current change in profits (to keep track of while iterating through the loop). This also fixes the average change, by not taking into account the first line's change in profits between itself and the non-existent line before it (equaling a change of whatever the profit is).
Now, after working through this theoretical occasion, I began another if statement for the rest of the lines, and calculated the average change (because we're not counting the change between first line and the non-existent previous line, we must subtract 1).
Finally, print results and export to a separate CSV file in the Analysis folder.

2. PyPoll: 
I began by importing both the os and csv modules, but then I ran into some issues finding the path to the csv file 'election_data.csv'. I found a helpful hint on this page: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-path-to-the-given-file-using-python/ (Method 4) that was able to return the path to the file. Then, I was able to open the csv file, specify the delimiter, skip the header, and begin looping through the rows of text. 
I began the loop by creating a dictionary called votesPerCandidate with the names of the candidates as keys and the number of votes they received as values, and declared each line in the csv file as the variable "ballot". From here I was able to get the number of votes each candidate received by incrementing by one if the loop recognized the name in index[2] as "seen", otherwise defaulting the value to 0 if index [2] had not been seen before, and adding the totals each candidate recieved to get the total number of votes. Here, I found that the '.update()' method can immediately add a new key-value pair, so I used this to update the dictionary whenever it found a new name in index[2] (https://www.w3schools.com/python/ref_dictionary_update.asp). 
For percentages, I began a new dictionary with names as keys and percentages as values (multipled by 100), and initialized an equality to find a winner (looping through the dictionary's values to find the biggest percentage). 
Finally, print results and export to separate csv file in Analysis folder. Instead of writing and printing each line of results separately, I assigned a variable to a list of the results, and inserted the variable into another 'template' list to print, using the spread operator (https://how.wtf/spread-operator-in-python.html).